---
title: Grammar
date: 2023-10-19 13:23:51
permalink: /pages/08fa35/
categories:
  - 分享
  - English
tags:
  - English
---
::: tip

资料来源: 

1. https://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/grammar/a1-a2-grammar
2. https://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/grammar/b1-b2-grammar
3. https://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/grammar/c1-grammar

:::

<!-- more -->

## （A1-A2）Grammar

### :one: Adjectives and prepositions

#### With *at*

We use *at* with adjectives like *good*/*bad*/*amazing*/*brilliant*/*terrible*, etc. to talk about skills and abilities.

> *He's really **good at** English.
> She's **amazing at** the piano.
> They're **terrible at** organising anything.
> I'm not very **good at** drawing.*

#### With *about*

We often use *about* with adjectives of feelings like *angry*/*excited*/*happy*/*nervous*/*sad*/*stressed*/*worried*, etc. to explain what is causing that feeling.

> *I'm **angry about** the decision.
> He's **nervous about** the presentation.
> She's **excited about** the new job.
> They were **worried about** the exam.*

#### With *of*

However, sometimes we use *of* with feelings.

> *She was **afraid of** telling her mum.
> I'm **frightened of** having an accident.
> He's **scared of** flying.
> You should be **proud of** your progress.*

#### With *to*

We can use *to* to show the connection between people or things.

> *He's **married to** the director.
> I'm **addicted to** my phone.
> I'm **allergic to** nuts.
> It's **similar to** the old one.*

We can also use *to* to talk about someone's behaviour towards someone else.

> *They were really **friendly to** me.
> Was he **nice to** you?
> He is always **polite to** everyone.
> She was very **rude to** the waitress.*

Here are some other useful adjectives with prepositions.

#### With *for*

> *Exercise is **good for** you.
> Stress is **bad for** you.
> The town is **famous for** its cheese.
> I'm **responsible for** the financial side of the business.*

#### With *in*

> *She's **interested in** the project.
> They want someone who's **experienced in** design.
> I didn't want to get **involved in** the argument.*



### :two: Adjectives ending in '-ed' and '-ing'

+ '-ed' mean that any life feel, like: My cat feel execting.
+ '-ing' mean that describing objective let people feel



### :three:&:four:. Articles: 'a', 'an', 'the'

`mistake`

1. Is there **a** university where you live?
2. I can take the children to school today.
3. She was born in Japan, but she went to  university in the Bahamas. Because she was a student.

#### Jobs

When we say what people's jobs are, we usually use *a*/*an*.

> *He's **an** architect.
> She's **a** scientist.
> My grandmother was **a** teacher.*

#### Common phrases

We don't usually use an article in expressions with *bed*, *work* and *home*.

> *go to bed / be in bed
> go to work / be at work / start work / finish work
> go home / be at home / get home / stay at home*

We also don't normally use an article in expressions with *school*, *university*, *prison* and *hospital*.

> *start school / go to school / be at school
> go to university / be at university
> be sent to prison / go to prison / be in prison
> go to hospital / be in hospital*

But we usually use *the* if someone is just visiting the place, and not there as a student/prisoner/patient, etc.

> *My son has started **school** now. I went to **the school** to meet his teacher.
> I went to **the prison** a lot when I was a social worker.
> I'm at **the hospital**. My sister has just had a baby.*

#### Place names

We don't normally use an article for continents, most countries, cities, towns, lakes, mountains or universities. So, we say:

> *Africa, Asia, Europe
> India, Ghana, Peru, Denmark
> Addis Ababa, Hanoi, New York, Moscow
> Lake Victoria, Lake Superior, Lake Tanganyika
> Mount Everest, Mount Kilimanjaro, Mount Elbrus
> Cardiff University, Harvard University, Manchester University*

Some countries are different. Country names with *United* have *the*. There are other countries which are exceptions too. So, we say:

> *the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United States of America
> the Bahamas, the Gambia*

Seas and oceans, mountain ranges and rivers have *the*:

> *the Atlantic, the Pacific, the Mediterranean
> the Andes, the Himalayas, the Alps
> the Nile, the Amazon, the Yangtze*

Universities with *of* in the title also have *the*:

> *the University of Cape Town, the University of Delhi, the University of Tokyo*



### :five: Comparative adjectives

::: note mistake

1. I like to go to work early because the bus is **more crowded** after 8.

:::

Exception: You can either add *-er*/*-r* or use *more* with some two-syllable adjectives, such as *common*, *cruel*, *gentle*, *handsome*, *likely*, *narrow*, *pleasant*, *polite*, *simple* and *stupid*.

> *I think life in the countryside is* ***simpler\*** *than in the city.*
> *It's* ***more simple\*** *to live in the city because everything you need is there.*



### :six: Infinitive of purpose

::: note mistake

1. He needs a new computer **to edit** video.

:::



### :seven: countable and uncountable

::: note mistake

1. We have **a  lot of** chairs but we don't have **any** tables.
2. There isn't **any** toothpaste.
3. I bought **some** new shoes
4. We've got **some** chicken.
5. How **many** people
6. Do you want **some/any** chocolate

:::

 uncountable nouns:  **furniture advice** **luggage bread**



#### question

In questions we use *a*/*an*, *any* or *how many* with **countable** nouns.

> *Is there **an** email address to write to?
> Are there **any** chairs?
> **How many** chairs are there?*

And we use *any* or *how much* with **uncountable** nouns.

> *Is there **any** sugar?
> **How much** orange juice is there?*

But when we are **offering** something or **asking** for something, we normally use *some*.

> *Do you want **some** chocolate?
> Can we have **some** more chairs, please?*

We also use *some* in a question when we think the answer will be '**yes**'.

> *Have you got **some** new glasses?*

#### Other expressions of quantity

*A lot of* (or *lots of*) can be used with both countable and uncountable nouns.

> *There are **lots of** apples on the trees.
> There is **a lot of** snow on the road*.

Notice that we don't usually use *many* or *much* in **positive** sentences. We use *a lot of* instead.

> *They have **a lot of** money.*

However, in **negative** sentences we use *not many* with countable nouns and *not much* with uncountable nouns.

> *There are a lot of carrots but there are**n't many** potatoes.
> There's lots of juice but there is**n't much** water.*



### :eight: Past continuous and past simple

::: note mistake

1. I **started** my new job yesterday.
2. They **were already closing** the shop when I got there, so I couldn't go in and buy anything.
3. This time last year I **was studying** at university.
4. At 6 p.m. yesterday it **was already getting** dark.
5. I saw you driving down Green Street yesterday! Where **were you going** ?
6. When we saw the crime, we called the police.

:::



#### past continuous

The past continuous shows us that the action **was already** in progress at a certain time in the past.

> *What were you doing at 8 p.m. last night? I was studying.*

This means that I started studying b**efore 8 p.m. and I continued** after 8 p.m.

The past continuous can also show that an activity was in **progress for some time**, not just for a moment.

> *We were cleaning the house all morning.*

We make the past continuous with *was* or *were* and the -*ing* form of the verb.

> *She couldn't come to the party. She was working.
> Three years ago, we were living in my home town.
> I tried to give him some advice, but he wasn't listening.
> What were you doing this time last year?*



#### Past continuous and past simple

+ The past simple shows us that an action was in the past, not in the present.

+ The past continuous shows us that the action was already in progress at a certain time in the past.

When we use these two tenses together, it shows us that the **past simple** action happened **in the middle of** the past continuous action, while it was in progress.

> *While I was studying, I suddenly felt sleepy.*

We often use these tenses to show an action **interrupting another action.**

> *I broke my leg when I was skiing.
> As I was going to work, I saw an old friend.
> We were watching television when the power went off.*

Can you see a difference in the meaning of these two sentences?

> *When the guests arrived, Jane was cooking dinner.
> When the guests arrived, Jane cooked dinner.*

In the first one, Jane started cooking dinner before the guests arrived. We know that because it uses the past continuous. In the second sentence, the guests arrived first **and then** Jane started cooking.



### :nine: Possessive 's

::: note mistake

1. Sara's **parents'** house is in Sydney. They live near the beach.
1. My best **friend's** apartment is really expensive. I don't know how he can afford it.

:::

We often use possessive *'s* or *s'* when we talk about family and friends.

> *Grandma and Grandpa are my mum**'s** parents.
> Maria**'s** best friend is Juanita.
> My cousin**s'** birthdays are both in January.*

It is possible to use more than one possessive in a phrase.

> *We had lunch at my friend**'s** father'**s** house.*

If a name or noun ends in *s*, we can add either *'* or *'s*. The pronunciation can be */zɪz/* or */sɪz/*.

> *Is that James**'** bag?
> That's my boss**'s** office.*

If the thing belongs to **more than one person**, we usually add *'* after the *s* of the plural noun.

> *Our friend**s'** house is in the mountains. They moved there last year.
> My grandparent**s'** dog is called Bertie.
> The twin**s'** school is closed today.*

If the plural noun is irregular and doesn't end in *s*, we add *'s*.

> *This is our children**'s** school.
> The women**'s** clothes are on the second floor.
> A lot of people**'s** eyes are brown.*

If something belongs to more than one person, and we give a list of names, the *'s* comes after the last name in the list.

> *Liam is Anne and Gary**'s** son.*



### :one::zero: Prepositions of place – 'in', 'on', 'at'

::: note Mistake

1. Buckingham Palace is **in** London.
2. They have lots of pictures __on__ their fridge.
3. Last summer we stayed in a cabin __on__ a lake.
4. My office is __on__ the 20th floor, so I take the lift.

:::



`in` inside a bigger space AND physical locations

***in** the world
**in** water / the sea / a river / a lake / a pool
**in** the mountains / the countryside / a valley / the forest
**in** a car / a taxi*



`on` 

1. *on* for some types of public transport

2. We also use *on* for lines (including rivers, borders, streets, etc.) and islands.

> *London is **on** the River Thames.
> The Pyrenees are **on** the border of Spain and France.
> There's a market **on** James Street.
> I'd love to live **on** the Isle of Wight.*



`at`

1. *at* for addresses or exact positions

2. specific activity



### :one::one: Prepositions of time: 'at', 'in', 'on'

::: note Mistake

1. My father was born `in` the 20th century.
2. We all try to eat together at the table `at` dinner time
3. I often have to work `at` the weekends.
4. My friend Peter and I speak `on` the third Thursday of every month.

:::



`in` the night = a specific time during the night 

e.g. She's a nurse and she works **at night**.

`at` night = all of the night

e.g. The baby often wakes up **in the night**.

We use *at* with Christmas and other holidays that last several days.

> The weather is very cold here `at Christmas`. 
>
> `At Chinese New Year`, many people go home to their families.



`in`

We usually use *in* with parts of the day and longer periods of time such as months, seasons and years.

`on`

We usually use *on* with days and dates.



### :one::two: Present simple

::: note mistake

1. She work**s** Incorrect in a hospital.
2. **Do** Incorrect you drink Correct tea?
3. Where **does** Incorrect your friend **live**
4. They **don't go** Incorrect to the cinema very often.
5. What is **do** you wears **wear** for work?
6. **Do** we have Correct time for a coffee?

:::



1. do regularly

2. generally true

3. add *s* or *es* for *he*, *she* and *it*.

4. The *he*, *she* and *it* forms for *have*, *do* and *go* are irregular. 

> *He* has *a flat in the city centre.
> She* does *yoga on Tuesdays.*
> *My dog* goes *for a walk every morning.*

5. For the negative, we use *don't* or *doesn't*.

> *We* don't eat *meat.
> She* doesn't have *a lot of free time.*

6. For questions, we use *do* or *does.*

> Do you *watch a lot of films?*
> Does he *speak English?*



### :one::three: Present simple: 'have got'

::: note MISTAKE

1. How many cousins ___have you got___?
2. **Has** he fo a new phone?
3. My grandfather ___'s___ got a white beard.

:::

1.  *I/you/we/they* + *have got*

2. *he/she/it* + *has got* 

3. *have got* more in speaking and *have* more in writing



We can use *have/has got* to talk about appearance, **family and friends or possessions**. We often contract the verb, especially when we're speaking.

> *I **have got** brown hair. = I**'ve got** brown hair.
> My sister **has got** long hair. = My sister**'s got** long hair.
> He **has not got** many friends. = He **hasn't got** many friends.
> They **have got** a new car. = They**'ve got** a new car.*

We can also use *have/has got* for timetabled **events, illnesses or abstract things**.

> *They**'ve got** basketball practice this evening.
> He**'s got** a terrible cold.  
> I**'ve got** a good idea!*

:a: *Have/has got* is only used in the present tense. For the past, use *had* without *got*.



问问题时：*have/has* + subject + *got*.

> ***Have you got** a big house?
> How many rooms **has it got**?*

回答问题时： short answers.

> *Have you got a new job? **No, I haven't.**
> Has she got a meeting this morning? **Yes, she has.***



:::tip

He**'s** 这里的's是has的简写

:::



### :one::four: Present simple: 'to be'

::: note MISTAKE

1. **Is your** job interesting
2. **Is** that a good book

:::



:warning: She is not = She's

1. *She* ***is not\*** *a student. = She's not\*** *a student. = She* ***isn't\*** *a student.*
2. *Money* ***is not\*** *important. = Money's not\*** *important. = Money* ***isn't\*** *important.*



### :one::five: Quantifiers: 'few', 'a few', 'little' and 'a bit of'

::: tip

1. *a bit of* or *a little* with uncountable nouns

:::



### :one::six: Question forms



`list or exists`

1. We use *there is* to say that something **exists or is in a place**.

2. speaking informally and **make a list** of things, we often use *there is*

***There is\*** *a bridge in the park.*

*There's a café, a supermarket and a bus stop on my street.*



`negative`

*there isn't* or *there's not* (= *there is not*)

*there aren't* (= *there are not*)



`singular or plural`

*there isn't a* + singular noun, *there isn't any* + uncountable noun

 *there aren't any* + plural noun.

*there is no* + uncountable noun and *there are no* + plural



::: tip

1. 没有there're 简写
2. There isn't any `any`需要表示否定才会出现
3. There's no 肯定就可以出现

:::



### :one::seven: Verbs followed by '-ing' or infinitive

::: note MISTAKE

1. If you feel ill, avoid __doing__ any hard exercise.
2.  I would like __to__ a reservation, please.
3. I suggest __visiting__ the museums while you're in London.
4. Do you mind __waiting__ for me a few minutes?
5. I'm learning __to drive__ at the moment.
6. I'd like __to come__ to the party.
7. Now I've changed jobs, I miss __seeing__ my old colleagues.

:::



`-ing`

When *enjoy*, *admit* and *mind* are followed by another verb, it must be in the -*ing* form.

> *I enjoy **travelling**.
> He admitted **stealing** the necklace.
> I don't mind **waiting** if you're busy.*

Other verbs in this group include *avoid*, *can't help*, *consider*, *dislike*, *feel like*, *finish*, *give up*, *miss*, *practise* and *suggest*.

*Like* and *love* can be followed by the -*ing* form and the *to* + infinitive form. They are both correct.



`to do`

When *want*, *learn* and *offer* are followed by another verb, it must be in the *to* + infinitive form.

> *I want **to speak** to the manager.
> She's learning **to play** the piano.
> He offered **to help** us wash up.*

Other verbs in this group include *afford*, *agree*, *ask*, *choose*, *decide*, *expect*, *hope*, *plan*, *prepare*, *promise*, *refuse* and *would like*.



### TEST

No **wonder** Hannah is happy when you think how many prizes she has won recently.

When you come to my house, **bring** your camera with you.

Would you like some ice in your drink or not?  **I don't mind.**

 Do you know my brother Charlie?  **I don't think I do.**

How long are you here for? **Till tomorrow.**

There's someone at the door.  **Well, go and answer it then.**

Shall we go out for pizza tonight? **I'm too tired.**

Who gave you this book, Lucy? **I bought it.**

I hope it doesn't rain. **So do I.**

I'd like two tickets for tomorrow night. **I'll just check for you.**

The company needs to **decide once**（一劳永逸） and for all what its position is on this point.

The singer ended the concert **with** her most popular song.

Would you mind **giving** these plates a **wipe**(湿巾) before putting them in the cupboard?

I was looking forward **to eating** at the new restaurant, but it was closed.

It was only ten days ago **that** she started her new job.

The shop didn't have the shoes I wanted, but they've **ordered** a pair specially for me.

Have you got time to discuss your work now or are you **about** to leave?

She came to live here **almost** a month ago.

can **unfasten** your seat belts

I'd rather you **explained** to her why we can't go.

When I realised I had dropped my gloves, I decided to **retrace** my steps.

Anne's house is somewhere in the **vicinity** of the railway station.



## (B1-B2) Grammar 36

### :one: Adjectives: gradable and non-gradable

::: note MISTAKE

1. I'm _**very**_ late. I'm so sorry!
2. The pasta was _very_ tasty.
3. These shoes are _a bit of_ small.
4. In real life, it was _really_ tiny.

:::



#### `Gradable`

Here is a list of some common gradable adjectives and some modifiers that we can use with them.

| **Modifiers**  | *a little/a bit* →                                           | *pretty/quite* → | *really/very* → | *extremely* |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- | --------------- | ----------- |
| **Adjectives** | *angry*, *big*, *boring*, *cheap, cold*, *expensive*, *frightening, funny*, *hot*, *interesting*, *old*, *pretty*, *small*, *tasty*, *tired*, etc. |                  |                 |             |



#### `Non-gradable`

These adjectives describe absolute qualities.

| **Modifiers**  | *absolutely/totally/completely*                              |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Adjectives** | *acceptable*, *dead*, *destroyed*, *finished*, *free*, *impossible*, *necessary*, *perfect*, *ruined*, *unacceptable*, etc. |

Adjectives like *amazing*, *awful* and *boiling* are also non-gradable. They already contain the idea of 'very' in their definitions.

| **Modifiers**  | *absolutely/really*                                          |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Adjectives** | *amazing, ancient*, *awful*, *boiling*, *delicious*, *enormous, excellent*, *exhausted*, *fascinating*, *freezing*, *gorgeous*, *terrible*, *terrifying*, *tiny*, etc. |

 

### :two: British English and American English



| British English                                              | American English                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| *He isn't hungry. <br />He has already had lunch.  <br />Have you done your homework yet? <br />Yes, I've just finished it.* | *He isn't hungry. <br />He already had lunch. <br />Did you do your homework yet? <br />Yes, I just finished it.* |



| British English                                              | American English                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| *It's hot in here. <br />Shall I open the window? <br />Shall we meet in the café at 5? <br />Shall we try that again?* | *It's hot in here. Can I open the window? <br />Do you want to meet in the café at 5? <br />How about we try that again?* |



### :three: Contractions

We use an apostrophe to show where there are missing letters in contractions.

> *It's raining.* (It's = It is)
> *Don't worry, it won't rain.* (Don't = Do not; won't = will not)
> *She can't drive because she's broken her leg.* (can't = cannot; she's = she has)
> *I'd like a coffee, please.* (I'd = I would)
> *You'll be fine.* (You'll = You will)



### :warning: :four:  Conditionals: third and mixed

::: note PANIC

1. If my grandmother __were__ alive, she would have loved to see me graduate.
2. If you hadn't seen the car, it __would have hit__ us back there.
3. We __wouldn't be__ late if you hadn't taken such a long time getting ready.
4. If I __hadn't eaten__ so much cheese last night, I wouldn't feel terrible now.
5. I __would have bought__ a cake this morning if I'd known you were coming.
6. If he __had scored__ the penalty, we would have won Saturday's game.
7. You don't need to print your ticket as long as __you have__ the email.

:::



#### **Zero Conditionals**

::: tip

第0条件句用于表示一般性的事实，例如 法律与规则。

:::

If I drink too much coffee, I can't sleep at night. 如果我咖啡喝多了，晚上就睡不着。
Ice melts if you heat it. 冰会融化如果你加热它。



#### **First Conditionals**

::: tip

第一条件句用于表示 我们认为真实或可能的未来情况。

主将从现

:::

If it doesn't rain tomorrow, we'll go to the beach. 如果明天不下雨，我们就去海滩。
Arsenal will be top of the league if they win. 阿森纳将处在联赛第一，如果他们赢了。



####  **Second Conditionals**

::: tip

第二条件句用于描述一个想象中的现在或将来的情况，这个情况在现实中无法或很难实现。

:::

If we had a garden, we could have a cat. 如果我有个花园，我就可以养猫了。（我没有花园）
If I won a lot of money, I'd buy a big house in the country. 如果我有钱，我就可以买个大房子。（我没有钱）



The structure is usually: if + past simple >> + would + infinitive.

通常句型：if + 一般过去时 》+would + 动词原形

#### **Third conditional**

::: tip

第三条件句用于描述与过去不符的情况。表示想象一个与过去事实不同的情况及其所产生的结果。

:::

If I had understood the instructions properly, I would have passed the exam.

如果（当时）我清楚的理解那些指令，我就能通过考试了。
We wouldn't have got lost if my phone hadn't run out of battery.

如果（当时）我的手机电池没用完，我们就不会迷路了。



第三条件句通常句型：if + 过去完成时 》 would have + 过去分词



#### **混合条件句**

混合条件句用于表示一个想象中的与过去的变化，对现在造成的影响，或一个现在的变化对过去的影响。

**1.** **过去/现在**

这是一个想象中的过去的变化，对现在事实的影响。

If I hadn't got the job in Tokyo, I wouldn't be with my current partner.

如果我没去东京，我将不会遇到我现在的伴侣。

So the structure is: If + past perfect >> would + infinitive.

句型为：if+ 过去完成时 》 would + 动词原形

**2.现在/过去**

这是一个想象中的与现在情况不符的情况，意味着过去也和本来的过去不同。

It's really important. If it wasn't, I wouldn't have called you on your holiday.

这非常重要，如果不是的话，我就不会在你假期找你了。

And the structure is: If + past simple >> would have + past participle.



### :five: Contrasting ideas: 'although', 'despite' and others

::: note Important

You told me ten times. I still forgot, __though__.

:::



**Although / Even though + sentence**

Although we don't agree, I think she's a brilliant speaker.
Even though we don't agree, I think she's a brilliant speaker.

**In spite of / Despite + phrase**

In spite of the law, people continue to use mobile phones while driving.
Despite the law, people continue to use mobile phones while driving.

**though 句尾**

It's illegal to use mobile phones while driving. People still do it, **though**.



### :six: Different uses of 'used to'

:::note MIXTAKE

1. I always hated the cold weather but I __got used to__ it when I lived in Russia.
2. We __didn't use to get__ much positive feedback about our old product, but the new formula is really successful.

:::



`used to` there was a repeated action or state in the past which has now changed.

uesd to do

`be used to` 'be familiar with' or 'be accustomed to'. 熟悉与习惯

be used to doing / n

`get used to` the process of becoming familiar with something. 熟悉事物的**过程**

get used to doing / n



### :seven: Future continuous and future perfect